chore: Csrf Middleware (#3391)
SAP/cloud-sdk-js: knowledge-base/adr/0038-csrf-middleware.md

## Status

accepted

> ### Structure of the Code Before Cahnge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Structure of the Code Before Change
```

The CSRF token handling is done in the `http-client` before the request is executed:

```ts
    //http-client.ts
  request.headers = await addCsrfTokenToHeader(destination, request, options);

    return executeWithMiddleware(
      requestConfig.middleware,
      {
        ...
      },
      () => executeFn(request)
    );
```

Currently, the middleware is only added to the `executeFn()` to the target system.
For the fetch request it is not considered.
Note that any kind of resilience entering via the middleware is not considered.

### General Improvement - Disable Fetch CSRF by Default

Not all systems require a CSRF token.

> We follow also the trend of optional functionality not being enabled e.g. cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We follow also the trend of optional functionality not being enabled by default, like cache.
```

> Currently, the CSRF token fails gracefully, and we continue this means we may have unnecessary calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the CSRF token fails gracefully, and the SDK retries to get one, this means we may have unnecessary HTTP requests.
```

> Currently, the CSRF token fails gracefully, and the SDK retries to get one, this means we may have unnecessary HTTP requests.

Reviewer 2: [req] "CSRF token fails" => "CSRF token fetching fails"
```suggestion
Currently, when the CSRF token fetching fails, the SDK retries the fetch with an adjusted URL.
This means we may have unnecessary HTTP requests.
```

> If the default is off, one should really fail.

Reviewer 2: [q] What is "one"? Is it "the fetching"?

// like above but timeout only for fn(), no timeout for the csrf call
executeWithMiddleware([fn(), timeout(), csrf(), circuitBreaker(), retry()]);

// csrf() completely outside the resilience
executeWithMiddleware([fn(), timeout(), circuitBreaker(), retry(), csrf()]);
```

Note that the csrf requests are not recorded in the circuit breaker history.
A dedicated timeout or retry is not possible as well.
To allow this you would need to pass a dedicated middleware to it `csrf([timeout(),circuitBreaker()])`
We could offer a default middleware including `csrf()` which does nothing for `GET` requests:

```ts
const defaultMiddleware = ([
  timeout(),
  circuitBreaker(),
  csrf([timeout(), circuitBreaker()])
] = [...resilience(), csrf(resilience())]);
```

This means:

- dedicated timeout for the actual request and csrf fetching
- circuit breaker instance based on destination URL will record actual request and csrf fetching
- retry is not enabled per default

In case a user need something different they can pass their own `csrf()` middleware to adjust the method or `URL`.

## Migration Discussion

- Too late in version 3 development to change the CSRF default behavior.

> - Deprecate `skipCsrfTokenFetchion()` in version 3 and remove it in version 4.

Reviewer 2: [req] I assume this is meant: https://sap.github.io/cloud-sdk/api/v2/interfaces/sap_cloud_sdk_http_client.HttpRequestOptions.html#fetchCsrfToken
```suggestion
- Deprecate `fetchCsrfToken` in version 3 and remove it in version 4.
```

Author: There are two optins: `skipCsrfTokenFetching` on the typed clients and `fetchCsrfToken` on the http-client.

Author: I removed the typo and included them both.

```ts
    //http-client.ts
  request.headers = await addCsrfTokenToHeader(destination, request, options);

    return executeWithMiddleware(
      requestConfig.middleware,
      {
        ...
      },
      () => executeFn(request)
    );
```

Currently, the middleware is only added to the `executeFn()` to the target system.
For the fetch request it is not considered.
Note that any kind of resilience entering via the middleware is not considered.

### General Improvement I - Make Arguments Adjustable

The CSRF token revealed a problem.
Currently, the middleware contains the function `fn` with no way to change the parameters:

```ts
{
    fn: () => Promise<ReturnType>,
    context: Context
}
```

With the CSRF token you would like to change the arguments of the axios request (add the token) without rebuilding the full `fn`.
Note that the `fn` may contain already middleware layers from before.
Same is true for the expiring access tokens from a destination cache.

An idea could be, to add the argument type and a reference to the `fn`:

```ts
interface Function<ReturnType,ArguemntType> {

    (): Promise<ReturnType>,

>     arg: ArguemntType

Reviewer 2: I am wondering why this has to be a separate property. Could it be in the fn signature?

`(arg: ArgumentType): Promise<ReturnType>` ?

Author: We make it a argument of the function and add a reference to the context so that it can be changed.
